The Joe Rogan experience.
Just, just, uh, uh, the a month ago or whenever it was that, uh,
Texas opened up, Fauci said, cases are gonna are gonna spike.
Now the cases are down.
And you hear what Fauci said? Which one? Which hilarious. What'd he say,
Jamie and I were talking about yesterday F <laugh>. They asked Fauci, like,
why do you think that the cases haven't spiked Texas? He said, well,
obviously the people in Texas are, what, how was, how did he phrase it? He said,
they're behaving themselves. Yeah. Behaving better. And they're behaving better.
And Jamie's like, have you been to Texas?
Yeah. But isn't this also like, uh, like just completely circular logic. Yes.
Where you're like, okay. So if I say this is gonna have happen,
and then the opposite happens. It's because of what I said, that was,
you know what I mean? That's what Cuomo was throwing.
And everybody was face in New York. Yeah. Cuomo was saying, if you, you know,
we gotta lock down because you didn't wear your masks, you ate the cheesecake,
you're going get fat. Remember that he was using these down home analogies,
like, oh.
Jesus card. I'll tell you what I can't stand.
Which just like makes my blood boil is when they use
your basic freedoms as a negotiating tool. Like,
they're like, well, if you do X, Y, and Z,
then maybe we'll let you have restaurants. Exactly. Maybe we'll let you do this.
Like, what the.
Are you? You get back some of.
Your freedoms, like you now, you're you using my freedom as a carrot,
on a stick. Yeah. To get me to do what I want to do.
Like what type of sick is that?
Yeah. And this is one of the reasons why I called you one,
one of the reasons why I wanted you to come here to do the podcast,
because I I've heard you talking about, uh, COVID passports about,
uh, vaccine passports. And, uh, I share your, uh, uh,
your deep concern about this idea,
because this is not something that you're just gonna keep with. COVID vaccines.
If there's a way that they can get you to show your papers and to
show whether you have an app on your phone, whether you're, you know,
whatever it is that you have to have in order to be able to freely travel around
the United States, they're gonna keep that.
Thing. Yeah. Well, and I said, just like I, I said before,
if you're just looking at the bigger picture of it, you're like, look, this is,
and I think objectively, the country went totalitarian for about a year now.
Not every single part of it was as totalitarian as the rest.
But according to governors out of the, their own words, they suspend it,
the bill of rights. Yeah. And we've been,
we've been in a year living under that.
Like how long do you think we can go in living in a totalitarian
society before? That's just what our society is. Yeah.
And there's not really a memory of the old normal,
or at least that seems like the old times, that's not who we are anymore. Right.
We're already dangerously close to that position.
And then now we have this opportu where it's like, Hey,
Joe Biden says that everyone who wants to take the vaccine will be able to take
it. I think by June, he said, uh, everyone who wants it'll be able to take it.
And that's a perfect little opportunity point to go, okay.
So we break out of it. Now, now we break out of it.
Now you can make a sound argument that if the vaccine's available for everybody,
the people who want it can take it.
And the people who don't are choosing to take the risk.
And now we go back to normal life. And at the same time,
they're proposing this vaccine passport, which really,
if you look at the proposals, isn't a passport, it's an app, right? With your,
your medical history, with that, can, you know, your data can be tracked.
Your location can be traced all of these things.
But what they're talking about doing now, when we have this fork in the road,
we could go back to being a free country, not as free as some of us would like,
but at least the way we used to have it right,
or we can go to what is being proposed and talked about,
which is a national cast system where there's one group of people
who have basic freedoms and rights. And one group of people who do not,
they don't have the freedom to travel.
They don't have the freedom to go to events. Maybe not to work.
Ideas have been floated out about grocery stores,
that that's a national cast system. And also just, uh,
you know,
throwing away the idea that you have any type of medical privacy from the
government. This is being, uh,
it's being done in collusion between big businesses and governments.
And this is already happening. It's being done in New York city.
It's being done in other countries.
And there were reports in the Washington post, in CNN,
out the Biden administration meeting with these big businesses to say, oh,
you know what?
It's not really good enough to do a local level or a state level thing.
We need to have one national standard.
So you're talking about a national cast system.
And if we embrace that, man, I, I,
I don't mean to be hyperbolic, but like, I think this whole thing is. Like,
I really think this whole country, we are not gonna come out of this.
If we embrace the idea of now,
this is an idea straight out of the Chinese social credit system.
This is what they're proposing. We do. By the way,
China already has the COVID passport. This is what China does. That's it?
No sense of like, you have a right to do this,
or you have a right to not do that. And come on,
you think they're gonna take power.
And then this will only ever be used for the COVID vaccine. Why would.
It be? It's also logically,
it doesn't seem to make sense if the vaccine is available to everybody who wants
it and everybody who wants it gets vaccinated. Who are we protecting? Yeah.
If these folks are out there that aren't vaccinated that are supposedly these
super spreaders and that's what we're supposed to stop, right?
Idea is that these people aren't vaccinated, they're dangerous. And we have to,
you, you are not being a good citizen because you have been vaccinated.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna keep you from doing all the things that
you want to do,
and we're gonna allow those other people that have been vaccinated to have those
freedoms,
but aren't those people who have been vaccinated have those freedoms aren't
they, they're not vulnerable. Right. Isn't that the idea idea. Yeah. So,
so it doesn't.
Matter. It logically it makes no sense. Um, morally it makes no sense,
but it is an unbelievable opportunity for the government to really keep
a, a, a serious, you know, level more of control.
But I think's.
The Biden administration has rejected this so far. Like there was a,
there was a discussion where they were asked and I think what's her name,
Jen sake. She was saying that they have no plans whatsoever.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> to do, uh, vaccine passports.
And that this is not something that the Biden administration believes in. Yeah.
So.
What happened was there were these reports that were out that said that the
Biden administration was consulting with these,
these big businesses on how to do it. There was a big uproar about it.
And then when she was asked, she was like, no, no, no, we're not gonna do that.
And ultimately, I think that's quite possibly what ends up happening.
Like I think oftentimes they put out these feelers mm-hmm <affirmative> to kind
of see what the people are willing to.
Like going to war with Syria.
Yes. Yeah. It gets a little bit too much pushback. Ah, we're gonna back off.
Right.
Remember when they tried to regulate the internet during the Obama adminis,
the SOPA bill or whatever, they put it out there. Everyone lost their.
They went not yet. Yeah. Not yet. Okay. Not quite ready. Wow. But it's,
so that might be the case. And then there's all these other arguments, you know,
like just the practicality of it mean like, look,
if you say you have to show a driver's license before you vote,
people will lose their minds about how this is racist,
because poor people and black people disproportionately tend to not have
driver's licenses. So what is an app on a smartphone? I mean,
how do you think that's gonna work in practice?
If you're saying you need that to do these basic things. Um,
so there's all type types of these problems of how you would implement it,
but it's still worth noting that they floated this out. Yeah.
Like there are these people in our government who would go Chinese
fascist on us if they could, if they could.
If they could catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on
Spotify, watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips,
easily seamlessly switch between video and audio experience
on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.